# LCSE
               Latent common source extraction (LCSE)
LCSE seeks to construct a common latent representation of the SSVEP signal
subspace that is stable across multiple trials of EEG data.

The spatial filter thus obtained improves the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR)
of the SSVEP components by removing nuisance signals that are irrelevant
to the generalized signal representation learnt from the given data.

This is a sample code for testing LCSE as described in the article [1].

Note: Use the SSVEP benchmark dataset placed in a folder in the same directory as this file

Link: ftp://sccn.ucsd.edu/pub/ssvep_benchmark_dataset/


            Dataset used: SSVEP benchmark dataset [2]
            
A 40-target SSVEP benchmark dataset recorded from 35 subject. The stimuli
were generated by the joint frequency-phase modulation (JFPM) [1]

- Stimulus frequencies    : 8.0 - 15.8 Hz with an interval of 0.2 Hz
     
- Stimulus phases         : 0pi, 0.5pi, 1.0pi, and 1.5pi
     
- No. of channels         : 64
     
- Selected channels       :9 electrodes[ 1(48): Pz, 2(54): PO5, 3(55):  PO3, 4(56): POz, 5(57): PO4, 6(58): PO6, 7(61): O1, 8(62): Oz,and 9(63): O2)
                                  
- No. of recording blocks : 6
     
- Data length of epochs   : 6 s [ 0.5s cue, 5s data, 0.5s blank ]
     
- Sampling rate           : 250 [Hz]

Data is a 4-D matrix named "data" with dimensions of [64, 1500, 40, 6]
The four dimensions indicate, [Electrode_index, Time_points, Target_index, Block_index]
         
                        Required functions: LCSE
                        
The function has been test only on the SSVEP benchmark dataset described in [2]

 [prediction, score] = LCSE(sampling_rate, train_data, test_data, number_of_filterbank, number_of_Reconstructed_channel);
 
 Filter bank coefficients : a = 1.25; b = 0.25;  as defined in [1]
 
                Specification of each input variables
 
 -> sampling rate - EEG data sampling rate (integer value) 
 
 -> train_data - data dimension -> [no. of channels, no. of EEG data points, no. of targets, no. of trial blocks]
                                   
constraints: no. of channels >=2
    
no. of EEG data points >= 0.2s of data points
                 
no. of targets  >=2
                 
no. of trial blocks >=2
 
 -> test_data - data dimension -> [no. of channels, no. of EEG data points,no. of targets]
                                   
constraints: the dimensions of test data should match the corresponding 
    
                      Dimension in the train data
 
 -> number_of_filterbank - should be a interger value between 1 and 7,
    Refer [1] for further description
 
 -> number_of_Reconstructed_channel - should be a interger value between 1 
    and no. of trial blocks used for training, Refer [1] for further description
 
 Reference:
   [1] Kiran Kumar G. R and Ramasubbareddy M, "Latent common source
   extraction via a generalized canonical correlation framework for
   frequency recognition in SSVEP based brain–computer interfaces," in Journal of Neural Engineering. doi: https://doi.org/10.1088/1741-2552/ab13d1
 
Visit my research gate page to download the preprint,
link : https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Kiran_Kumar_G_R
 
   [2] Y. Wang, X. Chen, X. Gao and S. Gao, "A Benchmark Dataset for
       SSVEP-Based Brain–Computer Interfaces", in IEEE Transactions on
       Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering,
       vol. 25, no. 10, pp. 1746-1752, Oct. 2017.
       
 Author: Kiran Kumar G R
 
 Affiliation: Indian Institute of Technology Madras.
 
 email: kirankumar.g.r@hotmail.com
 
 Google Scholar: https://scholar.google.co.in/citations?user=fH96otoAAAAJ&hl=en
 
 Last revised : November 2019
 
 Please send suggestions/queries to the above email
